Our scripture reading is taken from the book of Psalms, 85th Division.
We're gonna read verses six and seven.
Psalm 85, verse six and seven says, Well thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee, show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation.
Our message, this Sabbath, is entitled Revival
true and false.
Let's pray, Father God, we thank You for this opportunity to study Your Word.
We thank You, Lord, for Your goodness and for Your grace.
We thank You, Lord, for being better to us than we are to ourselves.
And now, Lord, we ask that You just pour out Your Holy Spirit upon this place, that, Lord, He would lead us into truth.
Lord, we need not hear from me.
We need a word from the throne room of grace.
This is our prayer in Jesus' precious and holy name.
Amen.
So we're going to be coming from the book of First King, sorry, Second Kings, the 22nd chapter.
And I'm going to start at verse three, Second Kings chapter 22, verse three.
The Bible says, and it came to pass in the 18th year of King Josiah, that the king sent Shafen, the son of Azaliah, the son of Mesulam, the scribe to the house of the Lord, saying, go up to hill
to Hilkiah, the high priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people.
And so if the story starts off with Josiah in his 18th year, how old was Josiah when he started as king?
He was eight years old.
He was just a little child.
And here's what's interesting.
We read prophets and kings
The Spirit of Prophecy says that when he was just eight years old, he was already determined to serve God.
And it wasn't because he had a good example.
His father was a reprobate that was killed by his own servants and he was one of the wickedest kings Judah ever had.
His grandfather was the notorious Manasseh.
By the time Josiah steps on the scene,
The kingdom has been completely saturated with paganism, idolatry, and perversion.
The last time there was a good king was arguably a hundred years earlier with Hezekiah, his great-grandfather.
Josiah had no good example yet.
Josiah determined in his heart he would serve God.
Now let me say this about even our kids here at Country Life.
We have some young people that are going to
be Josiah, somebody ought to say amen.
We have young people that I believe have been particularly called by God and we've got to continue to encourage them in the way of a Josiah.
Verse five, it says, and let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the work that have the oversight of the house of the Lord and let them give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the Lord to repair the breaches of the house
unto carpenters and builders and masons, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house."
So he says, listen, go and find the silver that we've been collecting as people come into the temple because the temple needs to be refurbished.
It needs to be rebuilt.
Go and get that silver.
And I want you to pay the craftsman in order to fix the church, the temple.
So it looks like it's supposed to look.
Verse seven says, how be it.
Look at how honest the folk were under Josiah.
It says,
how be it there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully.
Before revival ever happened, Josiah had a heart for it.
Before revival ever happened, they wanted the house of God to be in order.
Before revival ever happened, the people of God were willing to give to the cause of God.
And before revival ever happened, you didn't have to worry where the money went.
Verse eight,
And Ilkaya, the high priest, said unto Shaffin, the scribe, look at this, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord.
And Ilkaya gave the book to Shaffin and he read it.
So as they're in the temple beginning to do the work, they find some stuff stashed away.
And in this stash of things, they find a book, probably then a scroll, and they pull it out.
And they realize that it is a book that had been lost.
We are told by the inspired pen that, in fact, under the rule of Manasseh, he had gotten so terrible that Manasseh was hiding and putting away things that pertain to God.
So that the book of the law was lost.
And this is probably a good portion of the book of Deuteronomy.
And when Hilkiah gave it to Shaffin, he read it.
Watch this.
It is not enough to find the word of God.
It must be read.
Verse nine.
Shaffer and the scribe came to the king and brought the king word again and said, thy servants have gathered the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hand of them that do the work that have the oversight of the house of the Lord.
And Shaffer and the scribe showed the king saying, he'll cry at a priest have delivered me a book.
And Shaffer read the book before the king.
This is 18 years into his reign.
He's already trying to fix things.
And then the word of God shows up.
And Shaffer doesn't keep the word of God to himself.
He brings it to leadership.
He brings it to Josiah and he reads the book to Josiah.
You see, it's not enough to have the scroll.
It has to be read.
I, you know, when I talk to people, I encourage them, especially families, especially with little children.
It does us no good if the Bibles in our houses are just collecting dust.
We should have family worship in our house and every house should have
as almost like a curriculum as to how you're going to go through the Bible with your children.
You should know that by the time your child is 13 or 14 years old, you have done enough biblical instruction in your house that your child can defend what they believe.
It is not enough to just have the truth.
It's not enough to have the spirit of prophecy if it's never read, if it's never followed, if it's never taught.
Verse 11,
And it came to pass when the King had heard the words of the book of the law, the Bible says, Josiah, rent his clothes.
When the full weight of what the book said, all of the promises and curses in the book of Deuteronomy, if the people of God were obedient or disobedient, when Josiah thought about the condition of Judah, the kingdom of Judah, the condition of the temple, the fact that there were altars to false gods,
uh, gardens, uh, lifted up in high places that the people were still steeped in paganism.
And he read what God said in Deuteronomy.
He could not.
And let me tell you, in their custom for a king to rip his clothes was a great statement of humility.
Josiah, when he heard the word of God ripped his clothes in anguish.
The king commanded he'll cry of the priest and
I Hickam the son of Shaffin and Atbar the son of Makaya and Shaffin the scribe and a Sahaya a servant of the king saying go ye inquire of the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah concerning the words concerning the words of this book that is found for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us because our fathers have not harkened unto the words of this book to do according unto all
which is written concerning us.
So he said, listen, go and inquire.
King, second Kings chapter 23, they go, actually, let me go back a second.
They go to the prophetess.
She gives the instruction.
One of the things that's interesting is she says, it's too, basically it's too late for the consequences of the years of sin to be averted.
The spirit of prophecy actually says that God allowed them to still go through to go through what they went through with Babylon, because if not, they would have just reverted back
to their old ways again.
But Josiah was spared.
The prophetess told him, listen, because you did this and you repented, you won't see any of that.
And the king went up into the house of the Lord and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him and the priests and the prophets and all the people both small and great.
And he read the king read in the ears, their ears, all the words of the book of the covenant, which was found in the house of the Lord.
And the king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statues with all their heart and all their soul to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book.
And all the people stood to the covenant.
It wasn't enough for Josiah to read the book.
It wasn't enough for him to rip his clothes.
Ultimately, Josiah as leader had to stand before the people of God, read the book,
and say, no, we're going to follow what the book says and the people stood with him.
This is revival.
Revival without action, revival without obedience is not revival.
And hence we see a picture in the Bible of revival.
It actually stays the destruction of Judah and Jerusalem for a long while because of this revival.
The question I have for you today is, is America having a revival?
And I've been reading through all these different articles.
This is Ministry Watch.
And you see the article, it says you've probably heard some of it, some site sales statistics to make the point.
They note that Bible sales are up.
Some say by more than 40%.
Christian apps downloads are up 80%.
Christian music streams are up 50%.
And they say, this is evidence that we are in revival in America.
Let's see if that holds water.
It started actually about a year ago at Asperger.
This is a college, which is actually a revivalist college.
Some of you may remember this.
It was a year or maybe a couple of years ago.
And this college had this revival in 24-7.
They were in there, thousands of people flocked to the place and they were, you know, people were crowding in and they were worshiping and singing and people said, this is it, the great revival has returned and we are going to have
A Christian America.
People were so excited.
Then they came out with this movie, The Jesus Revolution.
And we may remember this came out and people were all excited again.
You know, the guy who plays Jesus on the chosen was the prophet guy in this.
And this is all in Orange County, California and how one of the churches that you see all over the place came into existence, Calvary Chapel.
And, you know, the Jesus revolution and everybody said, it's happening again.
We have another Jesus revolution.
And of course the show, the chosen, I get in trouble for talking about the chosen, but I can't help it because the chosen to me is a dangerous two sided story.
On the one hand, yeah, it gets people to say, all right, they're going to pay attention to Jesus.
And there may be people, let me just be frank, who find Jesus through the chosen.
I'm not saying they don't, but there's also that little bit of inaccuracy that slipped in that you got to be careful of.
Because as we're going to study today, the way the devil works is to pad lies with a lot of truth.
He wants to make sure you swallow the poison so he makes it really sweet.
As an example, one of the episodes of The Chosen, when Jesus is a boy, Joseph, his earthly father, says to him, Jesus, you have trespassed.
You have trespassed.
He says it multiple times though.
What would have happened if Jesus had actually trespassed?
Wouldn't we all be lost?
And of course, now you have prayer apps, like halo, halo.
People are all into this and you can go on there and pray and the app helps you to pray.
Maybe there's some good in that, I don't know.
But people say all of this is evidence that the country is in revival.
Maybe one of the biggest things that just happened in the last few months was the assassination of Charlie Kirk.
This article here from Fox News says faith revival follows Charlie Kirk's death as more people attend mass and read the Bible.
I thought that was interesting because I don't think Charlie Kirk was a Catholic.
I think his wife might be, but I don't think he was.
And yet the gauge that there's a revival is that people are going to mass.
Isn't that interesting?
In the Bible, when you read the story of Josiah, the proof that there's a revival is that people are reading
the word of God.
The proof that there's a revival is that the society, the community changes.
So Mission Network News, America talking about Jesus, church is overflowing.
Is this revival?
And this article, there's a couple of really good articles I'm gonna read from for you.
This article says this, a lot of people think revival is enthusiasm.
I don't even agree fully with the guy in the article, but I thought these parts were interesting.
A lot of people think revival is enthusiasm.
It's sort of like a pep rally for a big game.
Let's just get everybody in the stands, turn up the music and have an emotionally charged speech.
And a guy writing the article says, that's emotionalism.
I want to submit to you that emotionalism is not revival.
I mean, you know, I happen to be out and about after the Super Bowl and I'm telling you, there were Seahawks fans that were emotional.
And there were Patriots fans that were emotional.
Neither one was revival.
Revival, and this is from the article, revival is when the spirit of holiness, the Holy Spirit, the sanctifying spirit is manifestly present.
And what does the Holy Spirit typically do?
Well, he convicts of what?
Sin.
There it is.
Revival happens when folk are being convicted of sin by the Holy Spirit.
We'll come back to that.
He brings people to repentance.
There's a hunger and thirst for God, not for the secondary elements, but for God.
The word of God is present, the spirit of prayer, the spirit of brokenness.
That's what he says.
Now, there's another great article here.
And this one is from MSN.
Well, it used to be MSNBC.
So hold on to your seats.
I know what you're thinking, but hold on.
It says opinion.
Americans Christian revival is a hoax.
Now, what I find interesting is obviously this person writing this is probably not a Christian, but look at what the article actually outlines.
He says, contrary to ridiculous reports, America is merely witnessing a Christian reboot, not a Christian revival.
And reboots are rarely as good as the original.
To hear cultural task makers, taste makers, sorry, tell it, faith is fashionable again.
Songs with Christian lyrics climb the charts, cross-necklaces reappear on red carpet.
So you say, listen, people are saying because of these things, there's a revival.
Political leaders promise to defend Christians.
Podcasters debate whether belief has become cool once more.
Even NPR, not exactly known for altar calls, recently asked whether Christianity has found new life in pop culture.
You know, NPR is not,
Like he's saying, not very Christian.
Here it is.
But culture isn't the same as church.
This is a secular writer.
Visibility isn't the same as vitality.
And Christianity without commitment isn't Christianity in any meaningful sense.
Start with the basic measure.
So he says, I start with the basic measure of whether or not there's a revival.
He says, attendance.
How many people are coming to church?
Here's what he says.
Church going in America continues to fall.
Weekly attendance has been steadily declining for decades.
The pandemic didn't create the problem so much as accelerate the retreat.
Then he says, America is in the midst of a great unchurching.
I want you to hear this as much as we're going into trying evangelize.
America is in the midst of a great unchurching, a steady shift away from organized religion toward a more individualized spiritual landscape.
In fact, the fastest growing religion right now
among young people in America is Wicca and witchcraft.
And one of the strongest places that you find it is on TikTok.
There's actually, I've talked about it before, there's actually something on TikTok called Witch Talk, and this is where many of the kids are learning to do spells and witchcraft.
So it's not organized religion.
As the article says, and then look what he says, nearly 30% of US adults now identify as religiously unaffiliated
up by roughly one third since for 2013.
Do you see that?
Massively people are falling away from God, away from Christ, away from church.
About 57% seldom or never attend religious services, a sharp rise from two decades ago.
It is not, when you look at the numbers, it does not look like a revival is happening.
This is where the revival narrative falls apart, he says.
What we are seeing is not a return to shared worship, shared discipline or shared belief, but Christianity detached from its roots and repackaged for mass consumption.
This secular guy says, in fact, what you're seeing instead is they're taking Christianity, polishing it with the marketing of Madison Avenue, polishing it with the shine of Hollywood and putting it back out.
And this secular guy is saying that's not Christianity.
He says the data confirms this.
A recent report from the cultural research center at Arizona Christian University found that the share of Americans identifying as Christian fell from 72% in just six years ago in 2020 to 66% in 2025.
That's roughly 15 million adults in just five years.
Did you get that?
15 million Americans no longer consider themselves Christians.
in five years.
At the same time, the number of Americans claiming no faith rose to nearly 60 million.
I want to submit to you, these numbers do not declare revival is happening.
On this current trajectory, Christianity's decline is less a gradual erosion than a generational shift.
Each cohort, look at what the secular guy says here.
Each cohort that disengages is less likely to return, less likely to marry within the church, and far less likely to raise children in it.
What looks like a marginal change on paper compounds quickly in practice.
In other words, as one person leaves the church, they don't marry someone in the church, they don't raise children in the church, there's a whole another generation that is raised and does not know God.
And here's the other side of it.
They don't just go to public school and get neutral training.
They don't go to the universities of America and get neutral training.
They go and they are then poisoned against the things of God.
So you don't just have people who are neutral and don't like church.
You have people who are now hostile to the things of God.
And here's where it gets tough.
We are called to reach them for Christ.
We have to be so in Christ that even though
They have shifted away from him, even though they want nothing to do with him, maybe in generations have not known God.
We are still called to reach these people.
This is what he says about contemporary Christian music.
I found this interesting.
He says, the appeal is obvious.
The sound is accessible, uplifting.
And look at what he says, frictionless.
In other words, you can listen to modern Christian music.
The secular guy says, and it will not cause you
to question your lifestyle.
Mercy.
He says, it demands nothing beyond the top of the screen.
That's why it fits so neatly between workouts and commutes.
He says, but consumption is not the same as commitment.
Streaming a song about faith is not the same as submitting to a faith.
Charts capture attention, not allegiance.
Confusing the two is how cultural signals get mistaken
for spiritual change.
Listening to a Christian song, no more makes one devout than listening to a fitness podcast makes one fit.
Let me tell you something.
The devil does not want anybody to hear this.
He's turning the rain up, but we rebuke you Satan in the name of the Lord.
The secularists look at the church and say, in fact, you're not really carrying out Christianity.
All you've done is made it palatable.
Nothing is changing.
Society is the same.
In fact, I've shown you the statistics before.
Church members are just as likely to buy a lottery ticket as non-church members.
Church members are just as likely to go to a pornography website as non-church members.
Just as likely to watch the same shows on Netflix or in a movie theater as non-church members.
There's not enough separating the church from the world and the world recognizes it.
You see, empty Christianity makes way for prophecy to be fulfilled as people believe they have the truth while they are mired in deception.
Empty Christianity makes you feel good.
This is Laodicea where the church is lukewarm.
The church feels like they have everything they need, but the church is actually destitute.
God says, I'd rather you are hot or you are cold.
And the reason he'd rather you cold than lukewarm is because when you're cold, the world does not affiliate you with him.
And when you're cold, you recognize your need for heat.
You realize your need for God.
So what's going to happen?
Well, Jesus warns us, Matthew 24, 24, for there shall arise false Christs and false prophets and shall show great signs and wonders
in so much that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.
Jesus says in Matthew 24, 25, behold, I have told you before.
One of the signs of the end times is that there will be false prophets.
Second Peter chapter two, verse one and two says this, but there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you.
who primarily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that brought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction.
And many shall follow their pernicious ways by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of.
We are warned that as we go towards the end of time, false prophets will arise.
In fact, 1 John 4 says it like this, verse one,
Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world.
Massachusetts Institute for Technology, one of the premier higher education institutions in the world, did a study and showed that if you lie on social media, it travels around the world faster and more people look at it than if you tell the truth.
In fact, I give the warning to people that if someone is super popular on social media, part of their lore almost has to be that they're deceiving people.
Prophetically, look at what Revelation 16 and verse 13 says.
Revelation 16, 13 says this, and I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon and out of the mouth of the beast and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
for they are the spirits of devils working miracles which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world to gather them to the battle of the great day of God Almighty.
The Bible says that in the end there will be a false prophet, a specific false prophet.
This person will work with the beast and will work with the dragon and together spirits will come out of them that will deceive the world.
We are told that this false prophet is the same as the second beast of Revelation 13.
That means that this great country that we love, this great country, will one day, according to Revelation 13, the second beast actually turn from its roots in Christianity.
And what we will see as part of this false prophecy is that church and state is going to unite.
This is a part of the false revival that is going to take place.
This is why Jesus gives this warning, Revelation 16, 15.
Behold, I come as a thief.
Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked and they see his shame.
The devil is setting us up for great deception.
He does not want the revival Josiah to have to happen in America.
This is what I say when I hear politicians say we're going to make America Christian again.
Donald Trump has said that in May,
at the 250th anniversary of the United States, he's going to dedicate the country back to God.
And a lot of people are very excited about it.
And in a way, as a Christian, I want to be excited about it.
But I understand that there's more at work than just dedicating the country back to God.
The other thing that's happening is there is a resurgence that we should make America Christian by fiat, by law.
And there's more of a rumble around a Sunday law.
That is not revival.
Revival would happen if the churches in America became different than the people of the world.
If the churches in America, all across all the denominations stood so much on principle and lived like Christ lived that the world would have to pay attention.
That would be revival.
So what does true revival look like?
We're going to go through a few of these.
Number one, true revival begins with humility.
True revival begins with humility.
When Josiah heard the words of the book of the law, he ripped his clothes.
Pride must be put down in the heart before God can be lifted up.
Pride makes our idols invisible.
In other words, when you are proud, when you are arrogant and puffed up, you can't see the idols you're worshiping.
In fact, it's not a coincidence.
When you think about the sins in Ezekiel 1649, it lists the sins of Sodom.
It says this was the sin of your sister Sodom.
The first sin listed is what?
Pride.
It's not a coincidence that there's a month name for that.
It's not a coincidence that that's such a popular concept in society.
When pride is lifted up and we brag about it.
And that's all kinds of pride.
That can be patriotic pride.
Black pride, Latino pride, Irish pride.
I don't get what kind of pride you have.
Once you start to hold on to pride, you begin to not see what the devil has you worshiping.
Second Chronicles 7, 14 says it like this.
If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.
How does revival start?
humble yourself.
And I want to submit, even as we as a church go towards our time of evangelism coming up, that we pray and ask God, Lord, humble us as a people.
Prepare our hearts for what you want to do here.
Pray for humility.
Ask God, what if I erected in my life that ought to be tore down?
Josiah, after he has the book read to him, goes and begins to tear down the idols.
The Review and Herald, April 19, 1892 says this, paragraph eight, we are to learn that humility is before honor.
The apostle writes, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord and he shall lift you up.
We are not to have a put on humility.
There's such a thing as humility on stilts, a humility that parades itself before men to be seen of them.
The humility that God will honor is that humility
which is the result of the soul's realization of its helplessness.
I'm humbled because I realize what God wants to do.
I can't do it.
When Josiah heard the word of God read to him and he thought about the condition of Judah, he realized how helpless he was.
He realized there was no way he could fix it and not humbled him.
So he ripped his clothes.
None of us can do the work in front of us as society becomes more hardened against God.
and we are called to reach them.
We realize there's no sophistry, no argument we can make that will make the world believe the way God would call them to believe.
It will take the work of the Holy Spirit for that to happen.
Second thing about true revival.
True revival is Christ-centered, not self-centered.
In true revival, self decreases and Christ increases.
From verses Psalm 866 says this, will thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee?
David asks, gospel workers page 507 says it like this, naturally we are self-centered and opinionated.
But when we learn the lessons that Christ desires to teach us, we become partakers of his nature.
Henceforth we live his life.
Naturally we are self-centered.
True revival says it is not about me.
It's about Christ and his cause.
The third one, true revival is based on scripture.
It is not based on emotion or tradition.
True revival replaces the architecture of sin with obedience to God's word.
Bible based revival leads to reformation.
Bible based revival means something changes.
You can't have a revival and stay the same person you've always been.
Society should see you change.
Family should see you change.
Things should be different.
And it's based on the word of God.
Second Timothy 3.16.
All scripture is given by inspiration of God.
And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works.
all scripture.
The Bible has to be at the basis.
And this is why I questioned something when I was doing, when I watched, I think it was a little light studios and they did the thing on the chosen and they, and they showed the video of the guy say the first four episodes are not based on the Bible at all.
I don't want to watch something like that.
And it'd be based on man's interpretation or imagination.
If we are going to be revived, it will be because we are studying God's word.
God's Word is not an option.
Real revival is rooted in the Word.
Here's why that's important.
Because then it's not emotional.
When the Word of God comes to you and you are not keeping, for example, the seven-day Sabbath and the Word of God comes to you, it's not then about a feeling.
In fact, you won't feel good.
You might feel uncomfortable.
That's what the Word of God does.
Look at Hebrews 412.
It says, for the Word of God is quick and powerful.
and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of the joints and marrow and as a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
When revival happens, it cuts you.
You have to look at how you're living for or against God and that challenges you.
Psalm 19 and verse seven says it like this, the law of God is perfect converting the soul
The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple.
God's word is what we have to trust.
Number four, true revival is not about controlling the Holy Spirit, but surrendering to His control.
True revival is not about outward seemingly supernatural acts, but inward transformation.
True revival restores God's purposes, not human agendas.
True revival will not get caught up in political or worldly distractions.
True revival is different.
See, some people say it's a revival because it feels so good.
It's as a revival because folk begin to speak in tongues or miracle services happen.
I want to submit to you that when real revival comes, there's a transformation on the inside.
The greatest work of the Holy Spirit isn't to throw people around.
I'll never forget.
We were doing a crusade out in California and a mother and daughter came and we're going to the meetings and eventually they were baptized.
And they told us that the mother had been sick.
And so they were following around, um, Benny Hinn.
Some of you may remember Benny Hinn, you remember him?
And, and they would go to Benny Hinn and they would chase them all over trying to get healed, but they never got picked to sit in the front seats where the healing happened.
They always were sitting in the back and there was no healing back there.
Tells you a little something, right?
But he said, one time they went to Benny Hinn and they were actually able to get to the front and they were sitting up in the front corner like right here.
And they said, he did one of his shaman la malamas and he went like this.
And he said, the whole section went flying, the whole section lifted up and everybody fell flying and they were laying down.
The chairs were laying on top of them.
And the daughter turned to her mother and said, mom, I don't think this is the work of the Holy spirit.
And her mother said, why not, honey?
She said, mom, this hurts too much to be the Holy spirit.
That's not revival.
Anyone can do parlor tricks.
Only the Holy spirit can transform minds and characters.
Romans 8, 13 and 14 says this, for if you live after the flesh, you shall die.
But if you through the spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live.
for as many as are led by the spirit of God, they are the what?
They are the sons, the children of God.
It is the spirit of God that does this transforming.
And we have to, as a church, when we pray, we ought to be praying for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit personally, but collectively that the Holy Spirit would direct what our church is doing, especially as we go into these seasons of evangelism.
John 16, 13 says this, how being,
when he, the spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth.
The Holy spirit is key to revival, but it's not about the Holy spirit having you run circles around the church.
I remember I went to one, they invited me to speak at a church in Pasadena, one of the African American churches, you know, I forget the name of the church now.
And I went in there to preach and, and I was sitting there as they were having service, you know, and they're playing the music.
And there was a part when the music really got good.
I mean, that thing,
I mean, they just start, everybody starts jamming.
Everybody's head start moving the same.
You know, I'm at Venice.
I'm sitting, I don't know how to move.
I'm just sitting still trying to figure out what to do.
And one of the pastors' wives jumped up and she starts doing this dance.
I mean, her feet must have been moving at the speed of light.
It was just a blur.
She looked like Snoopy back in the day.
You remember Snoopy used to dance?
I mean, she was dancing.
And I remember turning to someone and saying, what is that?
She said, oh, that's the Holy Ghost dance.
When you get the Holy spirit, the evidence isn't that you can dance real fast is that you serve God consistently.
It's a transformation of who you are.
Anybody can dance fast.
Let me all remember MC Hammer.
Tell me y'all don't.
That's all right.
When the Holy spirit gets to you, it changes you.
That's what he does.
Look at Ella White here, the need for revival and reformation.
She says this, revival and reformation are two different things.
Revival signifies a renewal of spiritual life, a quickening of the powers of mind and heart, a resurrection from spiritual death.
Reformation signifies a reorganization, a change in ideas and theories, habits and practices.
Reformation will not bring forth the good fruit of righteousness unless it is connected with the revival of the spirit.
Revival and Reformation are to do their appointed work and in doing this work,
They must blend.
We don't just want revival.
We want revival and Reformation.
We don't even want to want what we used to want.
We want to be so different in Christ Jesus that stuff we used to watch discuss us now.
We want to be so in Christ Jesus that the music of the world, this big argument over the Super Bowl halftime show was interesting.
Obviously, I don't know what the guy was saying.
Kendrick Lamar speak English.
He did this as well.
So the year before I still don't know what he said.
So I wasn't worried about this one.
Stop speaking English because I can't understand what any of them saying anymore.
But if you look up the lyrics to these songs translated from Spanish to English, look at how vulgar the songs are.
Look at this.
People were mad that it was in Spanish when in fact really what should hurt you is that America has gotten to a place where vulgarity is the standard for entertainment.
We don't just need revival.
We need Reformation Church.
We need to be different than we used to be.
She says, a revival of true godliness among us is the greatest, need this from the Review and Herald, March 22nd, 1887.
A revival of true godliness among us is the greatest and most urgent of all our needs.
To seek this should be our first work.
There must be earnest effort to obtain the blessing of the Lord, not because God is not willing to bestow His blessing upon us,
but because we are unprepared to receive it.
Our Heavenly Father is more willing to give His Holy Spirit to them that ask Him than our earthly parents to give good gifts to their children.
But it is our work by confession, humiliation, repentance, and earnest prayer to fulfill the conditions upon which God has promised to grant us His blessings.
A revival need be expected only in answer to prayer.
While the people are so destitute of God's Holy Spirit, they cannot appreciate the preaching of the word.
But when the Spirit's power touches their hearts, then the discourses given will not be without effect.
Before we have any meetings, we've got to be praying for the Holy Spirit.
In fact, right now I am asking the Holy Spirit to work on the hearts of folk who will come to the meetings who we don't even know are going to come yet.
Without the Holy Spirit,
Leading into truth, it doesn't work.
She continues, guided by the teachings of God's Word, with the manifestation of his spirit.
In the exercise of sound discretion, those who attend our meetings will gain a precious experience and returning home will be prepared to exert a helpful influence.
Revival.
It's time, church.
Time for revival.
True revival restores the work of God, not the work of man.
I'll close with an interesting story.
One of my, one of the most interesting stories in Christendom is a revival that happened in Wales.
And you know, the United Kingdom, it's Scotland, England, Wales.
And in Wales back in 1904, this preacher, named as Evan Roberts, he was just a young man.
And he decided it was time for revival and he didn't start doing anything first, but praying.
He began to call on the name of the Lord.
And he began to pray in earnest for revival in Wales.
He went to the coal factories and began to preach.
Before long, all of the churches in Wales were full.
They were preaching the gospel and the churches filled up
People began to repent.
In fact, people who owed people money began to pay them back.
People who had stolen things began to return him.
The coal miners even stopped cursing.
The bars and the pubs emptied out.
That's revival.
People's lives were changed.
It was so dramatic that they tell an interesting story.
The owners of the coal mine said that after a while the mules and the horses they used to move the coal stopped
reacting to the co-workers.
And they said, well, why are the mules and the horses not reacting?
Because they used to only get instruction from cursing coal miners.
The coal miners were so converted they stopped using profanity and the mules and the horses couldn't recognize what they were saying.
Church, that's revival.
Revival means the church
is not recognizable.
When people are converted, they're different.
The old man is done away with and there's a new man.
So much so that the mules and the horses don't recognize who you are because you're so different in Christ Jesus.
The mules and the horses represent your old life, your old buddies, your old friends, the way you used to live.
When real revival comes, they don't
recognize you.
But that's what you want, real revival.
As we enter into 2026, I want you to just stand with me as we pray.
Father God, we thank you for the Holy Spirit, for the word, the holy word of the Bible.
Josiah Lord was read the book of the law and revival ran through Judah.
Father God, we now want to lift up your word.
We want to be filled with your Holy Spirit.
Lord, we are asking for revival right here in Cleveland, Texas.
We are asking Lord that our church would be a light in a dark world.
Lord, where profanity and vulgarity have become the norm, let your people speak the words of love and light that shines from heaven.
Lord, some of us are still struggling with sin.
Revival Lord convicts
And I pray today, Lord, that your Holy spirit would prick us, convict us, Lord, that what we may be involved in is not of you.
And at Father God, we would turn from our wicked ways, tear down the altars, destroy the groves in our hearts, and serve only the God of heaven.
Let your people be a people revived.
And Lord, I know the devil wanted to reign, to drown this all out, Lord, but we rebuke him.
We take that Rain Lord as a symbol of washing.
The Lord, you are washing your people clean.
That Father God, we might do the work you have called us to do.
This Lord is our prayer.
And Jesus is precious and holy name.
In the church, say amen.
Amen.
This media was brought to you by Audioverse, a website dedicated to spreading God's word through free sermon audio and much more.
If you would like to know more about audioverse or if you would like to listen to more sermons, please visit www.audioverse.org.